FLASK SQLALCHEMY
CONTEXT: DATABASE AND DATA VALIDITY.

what are validation.
    in python validation are special method calls that fo at the top model calss defination and prevent them from being 
    saved to the database of their data doesnt look right.
    validation consist of code that performa the job of protecting the database from invalid data
    sqlalchemy can validate our models fore they can even touch teh database.
    this means its harder to end up with bad data which can cause problems later even if out code is technically bug free.'

    we can use SQLAlchemt helper methods like validates() to set things up.


SQLALchemy Validations vs database Contraints
    SQLAlchemy validationa are added in the modesl files, these validataion are typically added through migrations.

    Database contrainsts and model validation are slose fucntionally different.
        1.Database contrainsts - will always be checked when adding or updating data in the database
        2. SQLAlchemy validations will only be checked when adding or updation data through the SQLalchemy ORM 

what is an invalid data?  


    in the file models.py in server foder a function valid_email() is created that prevents the object from being saved if its valid_email
    attribute foes not include @
    we can return a custom message by running ValueError with the message.

    Validates is used to validation.
        first one need to use a decorator which takes a string of the columns you want to validate.
        the first argumeny is the key you want to validate(in this instance ii is email)
        and the second argument is the value of what we ewant to validate
        note that we can pass several column in to the validate decorator that we want to validate
        there for the validate_email fucniton will validate both email and back_email column

        we can check the columns we are validating by checking hte key attribute. in this case thekey attriute is email and backup_email because those are the column we passed into the decorator.


